Do you do database testing?
  -- we are using structured query language we test relational data bases like oracle or mysql


JDBC:
The Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) API provides universal data access from the
Java programming language. Using the JDBC API, you can access virtually any data
source, from relational databases to spreadsheets and flat files.

The Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server is a Type 4 JDBC driver that provides database connectivity with SQL Server through the standard JDBC application program interfaces (APIs).


While JDBC provides a complete dynamic SQL interface from Java to relational databases,
SQLJ fills a complementary role for static SQL. Although you can use static
 SQL statements in your JDBC programs, they can be represented more conveniently in SQLJ.




A ResultSet is a Java object that contains the results of executing an SQL query.
 In other words, it contains the rows that satisfy the conditions of the query.
 b   The data stored in a ResultSet object is retrieved through a set of
get methods that allows access to the various columns of the current row. The ResultSet.



   Single Row Functions

  Single row functions will be executed for
  each row and return the value for each row
  substr(), upper(), initcap(),lower(), length(),round(), trunc(), mod(), replace(),concat()

   MultiRow Functions
   It will be executed for all rows but it will
   return single result.

    avg(), max(), min(), sum(),count()

 RowNumber
 -- We can use rownum with where clause.
 It can be used with bigger or lower symbol
  rownum




-- Set Operators in SQL
We use set operators to get results from
both queries
1- We must use 2 queries
2- Queries must have the same column name
3- Number of columns for the queries must be same
-- UNION
-- UNION ALL

-- MINUS
--It gives the result from first query
--which doesn't exist in result of second query








 DDL-> Data Definition Language
 Create -> It will create a table
 Alter  -> It will change the definition for the
 table
 Drop   -> Will remove all the data from table
 as well as removing the structure
 Truncate ->Will remove all the data from table
 but will keep the structure of the table
DML- Data Manipulation Language
Insert -> Insert single row of data
Update-> It will update the data in table
Delete -> Delete row from the data table

CRUD METHODS IN SQL
CRUD - CREATE - READ - UPDATE - DELETE
HTTP - POST   - GET  - PUT    - DELETE













 Do you do database testing?
 Using structured query language we test relational data bases.
 like oracle or mysql
 For automation we use jdbc connection




ResultSet object is related with my rows
if I use

resultSet.next() it will look at the next row
next() method will return true if there is a next row other wise it will return false

first() -> It is going to take resultset object on the first row
this method will return true or false according if there is a row or not.


last() It is going to take resultset object on the last row
this method will return true or false according if there is a row or not.


getRow() -> it is going to show what row resultset object is
looking at currently


deleteRow() it is going to delete what row resultset object is
looking at currently


getString() -> will take column name as parameter and it will return the value of the column if it is string.


getObject() -> will take column name or number as parameter and it will return the value of the column as an object then we can convert it to its original object type.


ResultSetMetaData object is related with my result
columns
// I will have some information and methods available
// for my result table

getColumnCount() -> Will give us count of all the
columns and last column number in the table

getColumnName() -> This method will
take column number as parameter and will give us the name
of the column number we provided.
*Column number starts from 1 and ends at
last column number*











"select first_name, email, department_name
                from employees e right join departments d
                on d.department_id = e.department_id;
                select * from students"


 What is Sql?
 Structured query language to access and create data base.

 Which clauses do you mostly use when writing a query?

 sql clauses used for limiting queried responses.

 where -> we define the condition and check if it is true
 it can be used with single row functions but can't be used with
 multi-row functions

group by -> it is used after the where clause
it divides data in to groups

having -> used to search for a condition after the group by
can be used with multi row and single row functions. Having can be used in the absence of a group by.

Order by -> Using a single or multiple column, we could arrange the data in ascending or descending order.
cassandra database is not structural and non-relational